title: Ports and domains
summary: the two ways in, which one you want, and who can add each

There are exactly two ways for someone on the internet to reach something
running in this container. Picking the right one takes ten seconds and saves
an afternoon.

== A domain, or a public port ==

A DOMAIN is a name — shop.example.com — that arrives on the machine's port
80 and 443 along with every other name on that machine, and gets sorted out
by the name in the request. It costs the machine nothing, you add it
yourself, and it is what you want for anything that speaks HTTP: a website, an
API, a panel, a webhook.

A PUBLIC PORT is a number on the machine's own address. Somebody types
203.0.113.10:31000 and the connection lands on port 3000 inside here — no
name, no certificate, no web server in the way. It is what you want for
anything that is NOT a website: a game server, a database, a VPN, an SSH
service of your own, a mail server.

    website, API, anything HTTP  ->  a domain
    everything else              ->  a public port

== Domains: you add them yourself ==

Nobody has to approve a name. From inside this container:

    domain add shop.example.com 3000
    domain ls
    domain del shop.example.com

The number is the port your service listens on IN HERE. `domain add` with no
third argument means the machine handles the certificate for you: it obtains
it, renews it before it expires, and forwards both http and https to the port
you named. That is the right answer almost always.

A wildcard works the same way, and covers every name under it:

    domain add *.example.com 3000

If you would rather terminate TLS yourself — you have a certificate the
machine should not hold, or you are running something that insists on doing
its own handshake — say so, and give the port your own TLS listener is on:

    domain add example.com 8443 self-hosted
    domain add example.com 8443 self-hosted 8080

The first passes the encrypted bytes straight through to your 8443 and puts
nothing on port 80. The second also forwards plain http to your 8080.

== Pointing the name at the machine ==

Adding the name here tells the machine the name is yours. It does not touch
DNS, which lives at whoever you bought the name from. Add an A record there
pointing at this machine's address — `dashboard ssh` prints it — and give it
a few minutes.

Until DNS points here, a managed certificate cannot be issued: the check that
proves the name is yours arrives over the very name that is not pointing here
yet. That is the usual reason a new name sits without a padlock.

== Public ports: your host opens them ==

You cannot open one yourself, and that is deliberate rather than an
oversight. A domain costs nothing — a thousand names share the same two
ports — but a public port is one number on somebody else's machine, and two
tenants who both want 31000 is a disagreement only the owner can settle.

Ask your host, and tell them two things: the port your service listens on in
here, and whether it is TCP or UDP. The number on the outside is theirs to
pick. It is one button on their side.

Everything they have opened for you is visible from in here:

    dashboard ports

== When a port is open and nothing answers ==

This is the common failure, and it is almost always the same cause: your
service is listening on 127.0.0.1 instead of on every address. From outside
this container, 127.0.0.1 is unreachable by definition — it means "this
machine only", and the machine forwarding the connection is not this one.

Bind to 0.0.0.0 instead, and check what you are actually listening on:

    ss -lntp

Anything shown as 127.0.0.1:3000 is invisible from outside. 0.0.0.0:3000 is
reachable.

The same applies to a domain: the machine's web server forwards the request
into this container over the loopback address it gave you, so a service bound
only to 127.0.0.1 answers nothing there either.

== What each one costs you ==

Both count against your traffic quota, in both directions, and both are
counted the same way — a byte through a domain and a byte through a public
port are the same byte. `dashboard net` shows what this window has used and
what is left.
